1. What data types do each of these values represent?

1. "A Clockwork Orange" A: String

2. 42 A: Integer

3. 09/02/1945 A: Date

4. 98.7 A: Float

5. $15.99 A: Money

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A: A database would be used for a checkbook, spreadsheet, or budgeting software to manage money. Text files can be used whenever you need storage of information. Text files are used to write and store source code for virtually all programming languages on text editors.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A: Unlike many programming languages, SQL is a declarative rather than a procedural language. This allows us to concern ourselves with what we want to find out, rather than how the database should find it. We don't have to define an algorithm for how the database should search; instead, we tell the database what we are looking for and the database engine determines the most efficient way to return that data.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A: Like most applications a database is software making use of hardware 
  to help humans.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A: A database table is made out of one to many rows and columns.
  A column is the y-axis of the database and the row is the x-axis.
  The value of an item is stored in a database cell.  

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

A: string, integer, float

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;
     
     A: English: Fetch all the values stored in the date and amount columns 
     from the payments table
     Result: All rows from the payments table for the date and amount column


     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
     
     A: English: Fetch all values stored in the amount column from the payments 
     table that are greater than 500
     Result: All values greater than 500 in the amount column

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
     
     A: English: Fetch all values from the payments table where the payee is 
     "Mega Foods".
     Result: All values from the table associated with payee Mega Foods.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

A: SELECT email, sign-up 
  FROM users
  WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data'

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

A: SELECT id 
  FROM users
  WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'
  
All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

A: SELECT * 
  FROM users
  WHERE id = 4
